chore(docs): add user story for Platforms (#4502)
winglang/wing: docs/contributing/03-stories/story-32.md

# User Story 31 - Wing Platforms

> Marcus works on a Platform Engineering for a large company that has multiple internal teams all building applications that get deployed into the cloud. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Marcus is an engineer in the Platform Engineering Team for a large company that has multiple internal teams all building applications that get deployed into the cloud. 
```

Recently, his company decided to start investigating adopting Winglang as the main language for their internal teams. However, his company's Cloud Center of Excellence (CCoE) 
has a few concerns about adopting Winglang. Primarily, they are concerned about how they will still be able to enforce company best practices and standards across all the teams,
if Wing infers the infrastructure from the code.

Marcus, has taken up the torch to investigate how they can conform the Winglang code written by the internal teams to the company standards. He has stumbled upon the concept of
Wing Platforms and is now a few energy drinks deep into a late night investigation.

The Wing documentation on Custom Platforms depicts an exposed `interface` called `IPlatform` which defines the methods that a Platform may implement. 

```typescript
export interface IPlatform {

>   newInstance?(type: string, scope: Construct, id: string, props: any): any;

Reviewer: missing `model` here, no?

Author: Yes you are right, I wrote most of the draft before our chat 😅

  newApp?(): App;

  preSynth?(app: Construct): void;
  postSynth?(config: any): any;
  validate?(config: any): any;
}
```

As he understands it, Wing comes with a set of built-in platforms `tf-aws`, `tf-azure`, `tf-gcp`, and `sim`. These platforms define how the resources are translated into

> the underlying infrastructure and inflight clients. He knows his company is an AWS shop and many in the company have extensive experience with `Terraform` so the `tf-aws` platform sounds like a great

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the underlying infrastructure and inflight clients. He knows his company is an AWS shop and many in the company have extensive experience with Terraform so the `tf-aws` platform sounds like a great
```

place to start.

He has determined that he can create a new platform lovingly dubbed `MarcusPlatform` which should be able to just extend the `tf-aws` platform and override a few methods to
enforce the company standards.

He begins by creating his platform in a new npm project:

```typescript
// marcus-platform.ts
import { Construct } from "constructs";

> import { IPlatform, TfAWS } from "wingsdk/platform";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { IPlatform } from "@winglang/sdk";
import * as tfaws from "@winglang/sdk/tf-aws";

```

> export class MarcusPlatform extends TfAWS.Platform {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export class MarcusPlatform extends tfaws.Platform {
```

  newInstance(type: string, scope: Construct, id: string, props: any): any {

>     if (type === "bucket") {

Reviewer: Something like this:

```suggestion
    if (type === wingsdk.BUCKET_TYPE) {
```

      // return custom bucket

>       return new Bucket(scope, id, props);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      return new MarcusBucket(scope, id, props);
```

So it's clear that this a specialized version

    }

    return super.newInstance(type, scope, id, props);
  }
}

// Custom Bucket class

> export class Bucket extends TfAWS.Bucket {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export class Bucket extends tfaws.Bucket {
```

  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props: any) {
    super(scope, id, props);

    // enable bucket versioning

>     const bucket = new S3Bucket(scope, name, {

Author: Yea as is it will not work, unless we store the bucket resource as an instance variable, however many resources create more than 1 thing. The intention is to inherit the bind and inflight methods, but I think I know a cleaner way to model the inheritance

>     const bucket = new S3Bucket(scope, name, {

Reviewer: maybe `tfaws.Bucket` exposes its internals so they can be configured from the outside:

```js
this.s3Bucket.encryption = ...
```

I think CDKTF resources are mutable.

      versioning: {enabled: true},
    });
  }
}
```

> As Marcus continues to change the resources to implement his companies standards he recalls that all IAM roles in his company must have a permission boundary set. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Marcus continues to change the resources to implement his company's standards he recalls that all IAM roles in his company must have a permission boundary set. 
```

> He recalls the `preSynth` method from the `IPlatform` interface which will allow him to traverse the Construct tree before any synthesis occurs. Meaning he can apply the permission boundary to all IAM roles before the code is compiled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He recalls the `preSynth` method from the `IPlatform` interface which will allow him to traverse the construct tree before any synthesis occurs. Meaning he can apply the permission boundary to all IAM roles before the code is compiled.
```

He is able to just add the following method to his platform
```typescript
  // .. code omitted for brevity
  export class MarcusPlatform extends TfAWS.Platform {
    validate(app: Construct): void {
      // apply the Permission boundary aspect
      cdktf.Aspects.of(app).add(new PermissionBoundaryAspect("some-boundary-arn"));
    }
  }
  // .. code omitted for brevity
  class PermissionBoundaryAspect {
    constructor(permissionBoundaryArn: string) {
      this.permissionBoundaryArn = permissionBoundaryArn;
    }

    visit(node: any) {
      if (node.terraformResourceType === "aws_iam_role") {
        node.permissionsBoundary = this.permissionBoundaryArn;
      }
    }
  }
```

Finally he publishes his platform to his companies private npm registry. 

He is now able to share with his internal teams that if they want to compile and deploy their code to AWS they can use the `MarcusPlatform` platform as such:

```bash
# install the platform
npm install @company/marcus-wing-platform
# compile with the platform

> wing compile app.main.w --platform tf-aws --platform MarcusPlatform

Reviewer: Since the new platform extends from `tfaws.Platform`, I don't think we need to compose them in the command line:

```suggestion
wing compile app.main.w --platform @company/marcus-wing-platform.Platform
```

I think `wing compile` will need to know the module, no?

Author: Im not entirely sure whats best here. I was kind of thinking the convention can be that there should always be a 
`export const Platform = SomeCustomPlatform` so Wing can always just assume the module is called Platform

Reviewer: We can have that as a default (so I can just do `-p @company/marcus-wing-platform`) but also specify an explicit class

> # User Story 31 - Wing Platforms

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# User Story 32 - Wing Platforms
```

  validate?(config: any): any;
}
```

As he understands it, Wing comes with a set of built-in platforms `tf-aws`, `tf-azure`, `tf-gcp`, and `sim`. These platforms define how the resources are translated into
the underlying infrastructure and inflight clients. He knows his company is an AWS shop and many in the company have extensive experience with Terraform so the `tf-aws` platform sounds like a great
place to start.

He has determined that he can create a new platform lovingly dubbed `MarcusPlatform` which should be able to just extend the `tf-aws` platform and override a few methods to
enforce the company standards.

He begins by creating his platform in a new npm project:

```typescript
// marcus-platform.ts
import { Construct } from "constructs";
import { IPlatform } from "@winglang/sdk";
import * as tfaws from "@winglang/sdk/tf-aws";

export class MarcusPlatform extends tfaws.Platform {
  newInstance(type: string, scope: Construct, id: string, props: any): any {
    if (type === wingsdk.BUCKET_TYPE) {
      // return custom bucket
      return new MarcusBucket(scope, id, props);
    }

    return super.newInstance(type, scope, id, props);
  }
}

// Custom Bucket class

> export class Bucket extends tfaws.Bucket {

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be `MarcusBucket` as above?
```suggestion
export class MarcusBucket extends tfaws.Bucket {
```

  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props: any) {
    super(scope, id, props);

    // enable bucket versioning
    const bucket = new S3Bucket(scope, name, {
      versioning: {enabled: true},
    });
  }
}
```

As Marcus continues to change the resources to implement his company's standards he recalls that all IAM roles in his company must have a permission boundary set. 

He recalls the `preSynth` method from the `IPlatform` interface which will allow him to traverse the construct tree before any synthesis occurs. Meaning he can apply the permission boundary to all IAM roles before the code is compiled.

He is able to just add the following method to his platform
```typescript
  // .. code omitted for brevity
  export class MarcusPlatform extends TfAWS.Platform {

>     validate(app: Construct): void {

Reviewer 2: In the previous paragraph you mentioned you want to use `preSynth`:
```suggestion
    preSynth(app: Construct): void {
```

Author: 😅
